Drake Maye has already exceeded any expectations I had for him as the next quarterback of the New England Patriots. I may be biased, but i think he is really good. I plan to analyze and compare his performance with other quarterbacks across the last two nfl seasons by examining key measures such as accuracy, yards per attempt, expected points added per play, and overall efficiency. I will explore which statistical measures give the clearest picture of quarterback quality across the league and use these measures to evaluate where he stands relative to both his draft class and some established veteran players. I also want to study how Maye has developed over the course of each game by looking at changes from one game to the next in accuracy, decision making, and ability to create positive plays. I'd also like to investigate how he performs in critical game-defining situations such as plays under pressure, third down attempts, deep passes, and red zone opportunities, and compare these results with league averages to understand his strengths and where improvement may be needed. Some of the statistics are ready available and thus compiling them should not be too big of an issue. However, a big challenge for me in analyzing the data is going to be choosing and interpreting the right statistics to make meaningful connections instead of just using numbers to make the case. I will use pandas and python to present the analysis. I am very much open to any feedback as to whether I should focus and narrow my effort a bit more. I feel this may be entirely too ambitious at the moment.
