**NFL QB Stats Analysis**

**Project Summary**

A comparative analysis of Drake Maye’s passing performance using a small dataset of other quarterbacks as well as the current top 5 quarterbacks in the league. All statistics and comparisons are through the first 14 weeks of the 2025 season. The goal is to evaluate Drake Maye on key metrics and understand how he stacks up against both his peers and the league’s leading passers.

The analysis utilizes meaningful measures of quarterback performance including Completion Percentage, Yards per Attempt (YPA), and Touchdowns. These metrics provide insight into passing accuracy, efficiency, and scoring ability.

We examine both a smaller group of randomly selected quarterbacks plus Josh Allen and an aggregate consensus of the top 5 leaderboard for the quarterback position based on week 14 qb starter data. The top 5 list consists of quarterbacks with the most touchdowns and fewest interceptions with passing yards being the tiebreaker.

The dataframe also consists of all quarterbacks with a minimum of 10 games started through the first 14 weeks of the season. This is useful in providing context to rankings as well as illustrating a larger picture of what would be considered average to above-average quarterback play in the league. It is important to note that one of the best abilities a quarterback can possess is availability. Therefore it only makes sense to compare Drake Maye with other quarterbacks who have reliably been available for 10+ games this season. Players with less than 10 starts have not accumulated enough statistics to make worthwhile comparisons.

**Key Questions Answered**

**_How accurate is Drake Maye compared to other quarterbacks and the top 5 quarterbacks?_**
Completion percentage is used to measure passing accuracy and reliability. This metric allows for a straightforward comparison of Drake Maye against both peer quarterbacks and the top performers in the league.

**_How efficient is Drake Maye as a passer in terms of yards gained per attempt?_**
Yards per Attempt (YPA) is calculated for each quarterback, providing insight into how productive each throw is. Comparing YPA across quarterbacks highlights whether Drake Maye gains more or fewer yards per passing attempt relative to others.

**_How does Drake Maye perform in terms of scoring, compared to other quarterbacks and the overall top 5 quarterbacks this season?_**
Touchdowns are analyzed both in total and relative to passing attempts or completions. This measure indicates Drake Maye’s ability to generate points and helps contextualize his effectiveness in scoring situations.

**_How does Drake Maye's Passer Rating statistic compare with other quarterbacks and the best quarterbacks in the league?_**
Nfl Passer Rating is a composite statistic generated by a function of passing attempts, completions, scoring, and other metrics. We will compute the passer ratings of starting nfl qbs and compare Drake Maye's passer rating against other, reputable quarterbacks in the nfl. These quarterbacks all share one common charactertistic in that they have started at least 10 games this season,

**Folder Structure**
```
nfl-qb-stats-analysis/
│
├── data_raw/
│   ├── qb_stats.csv
│   ├── qb_stats_agg.csv
|   └── qb_stats_top5.csv
│
├── md_stats_notebook.ipynb
├── README.md
├── final-report.md
└── requirements.txt
```


**Included Files**

**/data_raw/qb_stats.csv:** Contains passing attempts, completions, yards, completion percentage, and touchdowns for Drake Maye and a small group of other quarterbacks (through Week 14 of 2025).

**/data_raw/qb_stats_top5.csv:** Contains the same metrics for Drake Maye and the top 5 quarterbacks in the league through Week 14 of the 2025 season.

**/data_raw/qb_stats_agg.csv:** Contains qb data for all quarterbacks with 10+ games played across the first 14 weeks of 2025 nfl season.

**dm_stats_notebook.ipynb:** A collab notebook containing a modular view of code execution that makes up the project. The entire presentation can be run via this notebook.

The file **dm_stats_notebook.ipynb** should be run in the order of the cells contained within the notebook. Start with cell 1 and work your way down. Alternatively, performing a "Run All" cell execution will also produce the same desired results. The necessary packages and csv files are loaded at the top of the notebook for your convenience. 

**Requirements**

pandas>=2.0

matplotlib>=3.7

notebook>=7.0

**Installation and Setup**

**Local execution**
````
git clone https://github.com/mathguy-ars/nfl-qb-stats-analysis.git
````

**Installation**
````
pip install pandas matplotlib jupyter 
````
**Google Collab Execution**

1. Open Google Colab

2. Upload the notebook.ipynb file or connect to your GitHub repository

3. Run the first cell to automatically set up the environment
